CONSULTATION DRAFT


Eimon, 1983; Sawkins, 1984), with gold and silver ore mineralization nearer
to the surface than sulfide mineralization (Figure 1-78). Gangue mineralogy
also exhibits a zonation with depth (Figure 1-78) and occurs as three-
dimensional alteration halos around the epithermal deposits (Berger and Eimon
1983; Bird et al., 1984; Cole and Ravinsky, 1984; Sawkins, 1984; Mosier et
al., 1986). The alterations and ore zonations have been summarized by Berger
and Eimon (1983), Bird et al. (1984), Sawkins (1984), and Mosier et al.
(1986). The principal ore minerals are electrum, tellurides, argentite,
native gold and silver, and the base-metal sulfide and sulfosalt mineral
groups (Mosier et al., 1986). Principal gangue minerals are quartz, chal-
cedony, opal, adularia, alunite, calcite, chlorite, pyrite, and arsenopyrite
(Mosier et al., 1986). Ore minerals and gangue minerals, typical of deposits
on a worldwide basis and in Nevada, are summarized in Table 1-19, and for
Yucca Mountain in Table 1-20. Ore textures commonly consist of comb struc-
tures, colloform structures, and crustifications, and occur in drusy cavities
and brecciated zones (Berger and Eimon, 1983; Mosier et al., 1986).

  Generally, the mineralization is thought to be the result of hydro-
thermal solutions from epizonal plutons and occurs near the end of the period
of volcanism (Silberman et al., 1976). The deposits are often vein type
deposits (Mosier et al., 1986) but may occur in breccia zones, stockworks,
and stratiform deposits of hot spring-type association (Berger and Eimon,
1983; Bonham and Tingley, 1984; Sawkins, 1984; Babcock, 1984; Nelson and
Giles, 1985).

  The formation of new deposits during the postclosure time period at
Yucca Mountain is virtually precluded by the low temperature of the ground
waters (Section 1.7.1.5.2) and the extended life time involved in hydrother-
mal systems and ore deposition. In the western United States, geothermal
systems have a lifetime of 0.5 to 3.0 million years with an average of 1.2
million years (Silberman, 1985). Known deposits of gold, silver, and base
metals in the vicinity of Yucca Mountain and the potential for similar
deposits existing at Yucca Mountain will be evaluated in the following
sections. The tuffs, alteration mineralogy of the tuffs, and the volcanic-
tectonic setting of Yucca Mountain will be compared to the geologic and tec-
tonic features observed in known mineralized tuffs located within calderas
(e.g., McDermitt Caldera complex-opalite district) or located on caldera
margins (e.g., Jefferson Caldera complex) (Section 8.3.1.9).

1.7.1.2.2 Epithermal volcanic associated gold, silver, and base-metal
	  deposits and occurrences in the vicinity of Yucca Mountain

  A comparison of known mineralized districts and possible ore genesis
models within the Yucca Mountain area is important in evaluating the economic
potential of a repository site. A brief discussion of the most important
gold-silver districts that are hosted in volcanic rocks, in comparison to
Yucca Mountain, is presented below. Also presented is a discussion of
deposits located near Yucca Mountain, regardless of their host rock litho-
logies. Silberman (1985) has subdivided precious-metal deposits related to
volcanic centers into (1) caldera-connected (e.g., Round Mountain) and
(2) hot spring types (e.g., Steamboat Springs, Colorado). Within Nevada,


1-271
