3.3 Average Annual Operating Cost Methodology

The operating costs of permanently installed equipment and facilities
including hoists, conveyances, and conveyors have been estimated. These 
costs include labor, materials, and equipment for maintenance and 
operations. The estimates have been prepared on a cost-per-operating-day 
basis. Only the direct costs have been considered; overhead costs (such as 
staff supervision and accounting) are not included. The detailed operating 
cost estimates on a daily basis for each case studied are presented in 
Tables 3.14 to 3.22.

Categories of directly associated operating costs were determined for each 
case to make the estimates comparable. These categories include hoist 
operations, inspection and maintenance, work force travel time, supply 
transport, and conveyor operations. Each of these cost catagories was 
subdivided into the functional areas of labor, supplies, and equipment 
operation; then a separate estimate was prepared for each detailed area. 
The estimating procedure is as follows:

Labor--The operating and maintenance personnel requirements were determined 
on a daily basis for each operating cost area for each case. These manpower 
requirements were based on Dravo experience for that particular operating 
cost category.

Labor rates were obtained from Reference 1. These labor rates are based on 
contractors' union rates currently being paid at the Nevada Test Site. 
Forty percent was added to the base rate for fringe benefits, including 
vacation, sick leave, insurance costs, and workmen's compensation.
-46-
