inclusion of COUPLEFLO in Benchmark II was considered desirable
for two reasons. One reason was completeness. All the other
codes used in Benchmark I [2] were to participate in Bench-
mark II so the inclusion of COUPLEFLO seemed appropriate. The
other reason for including COUPLEFLO was that the results of
Benchmark I indicated that COUPLEFLO had the potential for per-
forming drift response calculations much more cheaply than the
other codes. However, COUPLEFLO did not have the slide line
capability required for Benchmark II so the development of a
slide line algorithm for COUPLEFLO was considered necessary.
Unfortunately, due to contractual difficulties and delays, the
slide line development was not completed in time to include
COUPLEFLO calculations in the Benchmark II comparisons.

  One potential participant had to be excluded from the com-
parisons because the calculations were not performed according
to specifications. The BGR of the FRG performed the heated
drift calculations with the ABAQUS code [20] in addition to
using the ANSALT code [18]. However, in the ABAQUS calculations
they decided to omit the anhydrite layer running through the
middle of the heated drift. Unfortunately this decision changed
the problem so significantly that the ABAQUS results could not
be quantitatively compared with the results of other partici-
pants. As a result, the ABAQUS calculations are not included
in this report.

  Several other potential participants also expressed inter-
est in performing the Benchmark II calculations but were not
able to do so because of time and/or funding limitations. They
included analysts at Sandia National Laboratories, Livermore,
who proposed to use the GNATS code [21], analysts at Lawrence
Livermore National Laboratories who proposed to use the NIKE-2D
code [22], and analysts at Los Alamos National Laboratories who


34
