  Barton et al. (1983) used empirical methods to estimate the joint
slip properties for the field scale as defined in Equation 2-2. This
empirically determined relationship is compared with results from field
testing in the heated block experiment (Zimmerman et al., 1986) in Figure
4.2. The joint shear strengths were determined in the heated block by
subjecting multiple joints contained in two major sets, to unequal
biaxial stresses. The unequal stresses caused joint slips, which were
monitored by deformation measurements on the surface of the block.

  Figure 4.2 shows the joint slip relationships as a function of the
normal stress. The figure shows that there is reasonable agreement
between the empirical relationship and measured quantities. Also, a line
representing a Mohr-Coulomb (Equation 4-1) coefficient of friction of
0.65, as measured in some of the laboratory measurements, is added to the
figure. The comparison indicates that the field joint strength can be
predicted from data obtained in the laboratory using either the Barton et
al. approach or the Mohr-Coulomb criterion. Based on this limited amount
of data, there is no strong evidence that there is a scale factor
associated with field-scale joint slip applications.

4.4 Tensile Strengths

  Tensile stresses can theoretically be developed around underground
openings when there are large stress differences in orthogonal
directions. Tensile strengths are used in describing failure criteria
for numerical models and for use in interpretation of hydrofracturing
data. Table 4.3 lists the values and identifies the type of measurement,
since this has not been standardized.


4-7
