144
      The model treats uniform leaching of the wasteform matrix, but permits 
preferential leaching of nuclides which are not members of decay chains, or 
preferential leaching of entire decay chains, by using average properties to 
represent chain members.   This limitation derives from the fact that the 
masses of radionuclides as a function of time are not modeled directly by 
WAPPA but are taken from the results of an independent ORIGEN2 model run for 
the type of waste being considered.  Thus there are no provisions in the Leach 
Model for redistribution of mass due to production or decay of daughter 
products of constituent radionuclides; nuclide masses are not considered to 
decay during transport from the wasteform to the repository.
       Seven properties are used to describe the mass transfer and mass 
transport characteristics of the representative component of the matrix.  
These are:
      (1)  Mass transfer coefficient for diffusion to solution
      (2)  Mass transfer coefficient for dissolution into solution
      (3)  Activation energy
      (4)  Saturation concentration
      (5)  Diffusion coefficient in bulk water for transport through failed 
           barriers
      (6)  Diffusion coefficient for transport in the backfill
      (7)  Adsorption coefficient (distribution coefficient) in the backfill
      Of these seven properties, all but the activation energy are used to 
describe the mass transfer and mass transport properties of the specified 
radionuclides. (In the development of model equations, activation energy is 
considered to be a characteristic of the wasteform).
    Important coupling effects of other Process Models to leaching processes 
are accounted for in the model equations.   These effects include leach rate 
enhancement due to alpha-damage of the wasteform and radiolysis of fluid 
(Radiation Model), changes in wasteform density due to radiation damage 
(Radiation Model), increase in surface area of the wasteform due to fracturing 
(Mechanical Model), resistances to outflow presented by partially degraded 
barriers (Mechanical and Corrosion Models), and temperature dependence of 
leach rate coefficients (Thermal Model).
       Effects of the waste repository fluid environment on leaching processes 
are accounted for both directly and indirectly through model data
