Results

      The location of the Forty Mile Wash survey site is shown in Figure 3. 
The transmitter wire forms a broad "V" shape with the electrodes roughly on 
strike with the mapped fault labelled "A", which runs in a general north-south 
direction (Lipman and McKay, 1965).   The field site is covered by Quaternary 
alluvium and colluvium and underlain by various members of Paintbrush Tuff 
which is a Tertiary bedded tuff interlayered with ash-flow tuffs.
       The survey was made along two lines, the more northerly being called NTS-
1 and the more southerly NTS-2.   The lines run roughly perpendicular to the 
strike direction.   Figures 4 and 5 show the NTS-1 and NTS-2 results 
respectively.   The normalized primary (P), measured (M), and secondary (S) 
fields are shown as functions of y. The MMR anomaly (%) is also shown.   The 
vertical scale for the primary and measured fields are the same, while the 
secondary field scale is to the left and the MMR anomaly scale is to the 
right.   The minimum and maximum values for the scales are displayed.   The 
squares refer to the left-hand scale, and the x's refer to the right-hand 
scale.   There is a separate display for each field component.
       The z-component MMR anomalies are characterized by a positive peak near 
y=470 m on line NTS-1 and near y=330 m on line NTS-2 indicating a conductivity 
boundary.   The y-component MMR anomaly shows an asymmetric transition from a 
small negative value to a larger positive value in the direction of decreasing 
y.  From these two curves, we can determine that the region to the west of 
this boundary is more conductive. (See Figure 6 for a schematic 
representation of the excess currents and the resulting MMR anomaly.)
      The west edge of this conductive zone is not seen because the line was 
not continued far enough.   However, based on the continued decrease of the z-
anomaly on line NTS-1, we can estimate the conductor to be at least 800 m 
6
