gravity field in the area of the eastern high.
  The significance of the comparability of the gravity over areas underlain
by substantially different geologic units is not clearly understood. The
angular nature of the triangular area indicates that its source is horst-like,
probably with a steeper boundary on the north than on the southeast. The
gravity level over the western part could be explained if the underlying
volcanic units are relatively dense like those of Timber Mountain, or if a
triangular wedge of the Paleozoic basement has been lifted up relative to the
areas to the north and south. In either case the volcanic units of the Claim
Canyon and Silent Canyon calderas must be either very thin or altered into
rocks as dense as those of Timber Mountain. A possibility, perhaps unlikely,
is that both groups of volcanic rocks are remnants of their associated caldera
domes. The general appearance of the gravity low to the south of the
triangular zone suggests that it is caused by volcanic tuffs of low density,
probably 2.2 g/cm3. If this density is correct the thickness would be more
than 1500 m (more than 5000 ft) relative to the Paleozoic rocks but probably
not more than 2500 m (about 8000 ft). The volcanic units could be those of
either the Claim Canyon caldera (Paintbrush Tuff) or the Silent Canyon
caldera. The close association of the gravity high in the western part of the
triangular zone with the known rocks of the Sleeping Butte caldera suggests
that these units are not the cause of the gravity low unless these rocks in
the area of the gravity high were part of the dome of the caldera.


35
