3


1.1 PREVIOUS INVESTIGATIONS

  Observations made in the Colorado Plateau area of southcentral Utah
indicate that the planimetric morphology of headcuts may be divided into
three classes as previously defined by Philbrick (1970): notched, hori-
zontal (called straight in this report), and arcuate ( FIGURE 1). These
three morphological classes are thought by Giampaoli (1984) to represent
an evolutionary trend related to knickpoint migration based on a flume
study of knickpoint migration in homogeneous material under conditions
of ephemeral flow.
  Brush and Wolman (1960) used a flume to study migration of knick-
points in non-cohesive sediments. They found that non-cohesive sedi-
ments do not allow the knickpoint to maintain a stable vertical configu-
ration. The knickpoint will `rotate' to extinction (i.e., erode until a
channel without a knickpoint is formed) as shown in FIGURE 2.
  Leopold et al. (1964) stated that the style of headcut migration in
homogeneous material is related to a ratio of the height (H) of the free
fall of water over the headcut to the depth (D) of the flow in the chan-
nel. According to their results, if H/D is greater than unity, the
migration will proceed in a vertical style, and if H/D is less than uni-
ty the migrational style will be rotational. These results were based
on flume studies which were apparently done under conditions designed to
simulate perennial flow. This idea is appealing and appears to have
merit, but they never published the data from their experiments or any
additional information regarding experimental laboratory procedure. It
appears that a constant flow depth is assumed in their model. This
assumption would not be true for most natural streams and especially for
ephemeral and intermittent streams where flow is often varied.
