2.0  GEOLOGIC FEATURES

An interpretation of the geologic structure beneath the reference 
conceptual site was provided by Scott and Bonk (1984), as consisting of 
closely spaced ("imbricate," in Scott's terminology) normal faults 
(Figures 2 and 3).   Such faults occur elsewhere in zones along the 
eastern portions of the more stable, passive zones, as represented by the 
Exile Hill block and the major topographic features of Yucca Mountain 
proper.   The passive zones contain strata that commonly dip 5~ to 15~, 
whereas the strata in the zone of close-spaced, normal faulting are more 
highly rotated and may dip from 10~ to about 50~.   The individual fault 
offsets in the zone of close-spaced, normal faulting may be small and 
difficult to detect, but the zones may be as much as a kilometer in 
width, with a cumulative vertical offset of several hundred meters.   The 
amount of tectonic extension occurring in the deformation process is 
greatest in these zones.

       The major normal fault offsets occur on the Bow Ridge, Midway 
Valley, and Paintbrush Canyon faults (see Figure 3); adjacent zones have 
been termed "drag zones" by Scott (1984).   Locally, these zones have dip 
reversal (westward) because of the drag effects.   Vertical offsets along 
the Bow Ridge and Paintbrush Canyon faults as shown in the cross section
in Figure 3 are approximately 150 and 500 m, respectively.  The Midway 
Valley fault structure conforms, in part, to Scott's conceptual model, as 
is evidenced by its geophysical (gravity, resistivity, aeromagnetic) 
anomalies and the presence of localized ponding of nonwelded tuff that is 
younger than the Paintbrush tuff.   The projected cumulative vertical 
displacement offset of this structure is about 100 m extending across a 
horizontal distance of 1 km.
-5-
