thorium is purified from any residual lanthanum and uranium by solvent
extraction, following dissolution in 0.3 ml of 0.08F nitric acid and removal
from the beaker. Approximately 0.15 ml of TTA (thenoyl trifluoro acetone) is
added to the solution in a 7 ml centrifuge tube, agitated thoroughly, and
thorium is extracted into the organic phase. The organic phase is removed
from the aqueous phase with a micropipette and slowly evaporated on a
stainless steel disc under a heat lamp. The disc is flame dried and the TTA
extraction/evaporation procedure is repeated. The disc is flame dried again
and placed in the alpha spectrometer for counting.

Isotopic Measurements and Counting Error
  Uranium and thorium separates are measured, individually, in high-
resolution alpha spectrometer units and a large-capacity multichannel analyzer
with multiple input capability. Partially depleted silicon surface barrier
detectors are used in the spectrometer units. A block diagram of a typical
alpha-particle spectroscopy system is shown by Chanda and Deal (1970);
however, liquid nitrogen-cooled cryostat units are not required for our
detectors. A typical alpha-particle spectrum for each of these separates is
shown in Figure 7.
  A minimum of 10,000 counts in the integrated portion of each alpha-energy
peak normally is accumulated for each measurement. For defining linear
trends, a uranium sample is counted four separate times and averaged, and a
thorium sample is counted three separate times and averaged. The 238U/236U
activity ratio is used to determine the uranium concentration by radioisotope
dilution using a 236U spike calibrated with a standard uraninite sample
solution (Rosholt, 1984). The 232Th/229Th activity ratio is used to determine
thorium concentration. The 230Th/229Th activity ratio is used to determine
230Th content by radioisotope dilution with a 229Th spike calibrated with a
standard uraninite sample solution. The concentrations of 238U and 230Th in
the standard uraninite solution are calibrated with NBS 950 standard
uranium. Activity ratios of 234U/238U and 230Th/232Th are measured directly
from the spectra; activity ratios of 230Th/238U and 238U/232Th are calculated
from data obtained in both spectra where


17
