2.1.9 Diagenesis

      Because the repository is located in consolidated volcanic rocks, 
diagenetic processes as such are unlikely to be significant.   However, a 
closely related geochemical process, the alteration of volcanic glass to 
a series of clay minerals, may be important.   This is discussed in 
Section 2.1.12.

2.1.10 Diapirism 

     Diapirism generally refers to the flow of salt rocks.   No salt 
formations are present in the subsurface at Yucca Mountain, nor are there 
shales, which have also been known to flow.   Diapirism is therefore 
impossible at this site.

2.1.11 Faulting and Seismicity 

     The IAEA lists "faulting/seismicity" as a single phenomenon.  
However, movement along a fault within the repository could affect waste 
isolation in ways fundamentally different from events elsewhere that only 
send seismic waves through the repository.   Since underground structures 
are generally resistant to earthquake effects [EA, Section 6.3.1.7.5], 
the waste package is designed to withstand a 20-foot drop onto an 
unyielding surface [Gregg and 0'Neal, 1983], which would accelerate it 
far more than the 0.4 g expected from a maximum earthquake (EA, 
Section 6.3.1.7.5), and since the rocks of Yucca Mountain have already 
been subjected to earthquake stresses for millions of years, it is 
difficult to see how seismic waves from earthquakes centered outside the 
site could impair long-term waste isolation.  (The report edited by Tsang 
and Mangold [1984, pp. 58-59] suggests otherwise, but in such general 
terms that it is difficult to derive any specific scenarios from it.)
The discussion here will therefore focus on fault movement in or near the 
repository.

       Even after movement stops, a new fault might perturb the 
ground-water flow system.   The effects of a new fault on which movement
-28-
