discussed in this report to a depth of 2500 ft principally for geologic
information on subsurface lithologies within the proposed site.
  Elevation changes within the site are about 1000 ft giving significant
problems with both the acquisition and interpretation of electrical data. It
was also because of this that heavy emphasis was placed on the dipole-dipole
work for acquisition of data throughout the site. Dipole-dipole data can be
acquired in rugged terrain and recent two-dimensional interpretive methods
which include the effect of topography are better developed than for other
electrical methods.
  In this report C. Smith and H. Ross of the University of Utah Research
Institute (UURI) discuss their 2-D modeling of all the dipole-dipole IP lines
which were measured across Drill-Hole Wash. In order to make the report
clearer to readers not familiar with the local geology figures 2, 3, and 4 and
plate A have been included in the introduction to supplement the original
report.

			Geologic Setting

  The Yucca Mountain area is located in the extreme southwest corner of the
Nevada Test Site (NTS). The generalized geology is shown in plate A adapted
from Lipman and McKay (1965) and Christiansen and Lipman (1965). The oldest
rocks exposed in the mapped area are Miocene rhyolites and tuffs. Principal
exposures in the survey area are various members of the Paintbrush tuff which
attains thicknesses over 1000 ft (305 meters). Here the Paintbrush tuff
consists of four principal ash-flow members; Tiva Canyon, Yucca mountain, Pah
Canyon, and the lowermost Topopah Spring member separated by thin ash-fall
tuff beds. The approximate geologic section is shown in fig. 3 taken in part
from lithologies encountered in hole UE25A1 drilled to 2500 ft in Drill-Hole
wash, Spengler and others (1979). The Tiva Canyon and Topopah Spring members


3
