November 30, 1984
TWS-ESS-1-11/84-22
Page 5 of 6


  The drusy quartz crystals that occur in altered tuff also are poor in
large inclusions, but the small inclusions which occur in abundance contain
visible bubbles. The largest inclusion found so far (8 ~m) yielded a
homogenization temperature of 145~C. Further serial sections are being
obtained to confirm this temperature. This preliminary datum plus the
textural evidence for early growth of the drusy quartz suggest that some form
of hydrothermal event preceded the calcite - opal CT - sepiolite -
palygorskite (?) - amorphous silica crystallization along the fault.

V. Isotopic studies

  Samples of pedogenic K-horizon carbonate, of fault-filling carbonate, and
of amorphous silica from one of the trenched faults are being analyzed for
carbon and oxygen isotopes by J. O'Neil of the USGS. A sample of the
early-formed drusy quartz from altered tuff along the fault will also be
analyzed. These data will be compared with those compiled for Yucca Mountain
drill-hole carbonates by Scott et al. (1984). Analysis of the drusy quartz
will be particularly useful for comparison with the high temperature (145~C)
so far indicated by fluid inclusion studies, and may help to distinguish
between a high-temperature spring origin or an origin during early
high-temperature tuff alteration.

VI. Preliminary interpretations and future work

  Of the four possible interpretations for the origin of fault-related
minerals stated in the introduction, none can yet be explicitly ruled out. We
can however state that more than one episode of alteration is recorded in
these samples. An early episode of high-temperature quartz growth (either
during early cooling of the tuff or by high-temperature spring activity) was
