and then runs almost directly south through the western portion of
Jackass Flats.  It eventually discharges southward to the Amargosa
Desert. West of Yucca Mountain is Crater Flat, bounded on the west by
Bare Mountain and on the south by the Amargosa Valley. There is no wash
in Crater Flat comparable to Fortymile Wash.

Major ranges farther away from Yucca Mountain, but still within the
study area, are Pahute Mesa and the Belted Range to the north, part of
the Spring Mountains to the southeast, and the Funeral Mountains to the
southwest.  Major valleys lie mostly to the south.  The ephemeral
Amargosa River drains Oasis Valley, the Amargosa Desert, and Ash Meadows
before turning sharply northwest to empty into Death Valley.  Pahrump
Valley and Las Vegas Valley are largely outside the study area to the
southeast.

3.3.2 Geologic Overview

Tertiary silicic volcanism from several centers resulted in the
extrusion and deposition of at least 6,000 ft of tuff at Yucca Mountain,
accompanied both by faulting associated with caldera collapse and by
basaltic volcanism. Basaltic volcanism, erosion of up-faulted blocks,
and deposition of alluvium in down-faulted areas have continued into
Quaternary time. Yucca Mountain is a north-south block, bounded on the
east and west by faults. The block dips to the east. The dip slope has
been only slightly dissected by erosion. The major wash is commonly
referred to as "Drill Hole Wash." For the purposes of this study, the
repository is assumed to be located beneath this wash. The western slope
of Yucca Mountain, an eroded fault scarp, is considerably steeper than
the eastern slope. Boreholes at Yucca Mountain have been drilled
6,000 ft without penetrating any rocks other than tuff, so any repository
at Yucca Mountain will be mined in tuff. Johnstone and Wolfsberg (1980)
have compiled information on the nature of the tuff at the NTS.
20
