15


TERTIARY STRATIGRAPHY

Volcanic Rocks

  Volcanic rocks ranging in age from late Oligocene to
Pliocene(?) occur on the flanks of all the ranges surrounding
the Stewart and Monte Cristo valleys. All of the age dates2
and most of the lithologic descriptions are from previously
published reports.
  Lavas of Giroux Valley (Tlg): The lavas of Giroux Valley
which outcrop in the southeast Gabbs Valley Range (Plate 1)
are dark gray olivine-pyroxene basalt. Phenocrysts 2 mm and
less in size constitute 10-40% and the groundmass texture
varies from basaltic to pilotaxitic. The phenocrysts are
plagioclase, clinopyroxene, and olivine (Ekren and Byers,
1978). Lavas and a tuff-breccia with a more silicic compo-
sition that outcrop in the southern Gillis Range are consi-
dered to be correlative with the lavas of Giroux Valley and
were K-Ar dated at 26.7~~0.9 m.y. on biotite and 25.7~~0.6 m.y.
on sanidine (Ekren and others, 1980).
  Guild Mine Member of Mickey Pass Tuff (Tbmg): The Guild
Mine Member of the Mickey Pass Tuff overlies lavas of Giroux
Valley in a sliver between two strands of the Bettles Well
fault zone in the Gabbs Valley Range (Plate 1). The


  2K-Ar age dates with an asterisk(*) are the recalculated
values from Moore (1981) who used updated decay constants of
Steiger and Jaeger (1977). Age dates from Morton and others
(1977) were originally calculated with the updated decay
constants.

