Conclusions

The significance of the work to date can be illustrated by plotting
some of the results shown in Table 4 on an NTS map. Let us assume that
Calico Hills is a potential candidate site for a repository. Figure 18
shows a portion of NTS with Calico Hills in the lower left corner. A short
dashed line shows the southern portion of the Buckboard Area as defined by
USGS, indicating the closest points to Calico Hills at which 700 kt could
be detonated. For a facility at Calico Hills designed to withstand 0.7 g,
circles have been drawn about that point using the results of Eqs. (1) and
(3) from Table 4. The solid circles are for Eq. (1) and the dashed circles
are for the old ERC criteria from Eq. (3). Circles are shown for mean, 1~,
2~, 3~, and 4~ (Eq. (1) only). These correspond to probabilities of 50%,
31.7%, 4.6%, 0.3%, and 0.005% that the 0.7-g level will be exceeded. Thus,
the probability of a 700-kt explosion at the southern edge of the
Buckboard Mesa Area producing more than 0.7 g at Calico Hills is
considerably less than 0.3% based on the more recent analysis. This
indicates that Calico Hills is a suitable site for a waste facility from
the standpoint of compatibility with nuclear weapons testing if the
facility is designed to withstand 0.7 g and licensing does not require
more than a 3~ probability of exceeding the design acceleration. The
corresponding level for the older ERC equations would be slightly above
the 2~ probability. Clearly, the newer analysis presents a more optimistic
estimate of the compatibility of a waste facility at the NTS with the
nuclear weapons testing program.
20
