238


3.7 Magnitude Variations

  Earthquake magnitudes which are determined directly from seismic wave
amplitudes on seismograph recordings allow a better understanding and
interpretation of earthquakes. Richter's (1935) original magnitude scale
(ML - local magnitude) was developed for use in southern California and
was limited to earthquakes with epicentral distances of less than 600
kilometers. Magnitude scales (body wave - mb and surface wave - Ms) were
later developed for use at greater distances and other regions. Some
inconsistencies arose in the use of these different scales due primarily
to the widely fluctuating geologic environments in the earthquake source
regions, at the recording stations and along the intervening transmission
paths. Richter's equations for the scales have been modified to fit
restricted regions in North America by B~~th (1969), Evernden (1967), and
von Seggern (1970), among others.
  Magnitude estimates for any one event (earthquake or underground
explosion) commonly vary by one unit between seismograph stations and
have been found to vary by as much as three or more units. Magnitude
determinations are influenced by several factors including (1) instrument
response, (2) nature of the propagation path, (3) the geology in the source
region, and (4) the local geology in the vicinity of the seismograph
station.
  Gutenberg and Richter (1958) used a term, Log A/T, in their magnitude
equations because of the "considerable variation in prevailing periods
determined from instruments of widely different characteristics." A is
the amplitude of the seismic signal and T is its period. Instrumentation
variability has been minimized in this report by using only data from
