   Tectonic events during the post-Early Triassic Mesozoic in 
the Esmeralda and Nye Counties include mainly eastward thrusting 
and associated folding with generally north-south strike, a 
change from the northeasterly strike of earlier deformations.  In 
Inyo County, thrusting and folding indicate shortening toward the 
northeast.  Thrusting of probable Late Triassic-Early Jurassic 
age is recorded in the southern part of the Death Valley region 
(Clark Mountain Range) (Burchfiel and others, 1970) and in the 
western part (Inyo and northern Panamint Mountains and Slate 
Range) (Dunne and others, 1978).  Jurassic compression is 
recorded in northwestern Nye County and eastern Inyo County by 
isoclinal folding, imbricate thrusting, and the synorogenic 
Dunlap Formation (Ferguson and Muller, 1949; Speed, 1978a, 1978b).  
Thrust faults in Clark, Inyo, and San Bernardino Counties also 
have moved during Late Jurassic to Late Cretaceous (Burchfiel and 
Davis, 1971, 1975, 1981; Burchfiel and others, 1974, 1983; Dunne 
and others, 1978; Fleck, 1970).  The thrust-faulted terrane in 
the southeastern one-half of the Death Valley region (fig. 4) 
involves several regional east-directed near-bedding thrusts that 
flatten at depth westward, and that bring upper Precambrian and 
lower Paleozoic strata over upper Paleozoic and lower Mesozoic 
strata.  This terrane is a part of the Sevier orogenic belt and 
its hinterland (Armstrong, 1968), and it probably was 
tectonically active rather continuously from Middle Jurassic to 
the end of the Cretaceous.  Comparable terranes along the west 
edge of the Death Valley region involve southwest-dipping thrust 
faults that bring rocks of Precambrian and Paleozoic age over 
rocks of Paleozoic and Mesozoic age.  Plutonic rocks that are
39
