parentheses corresponds to the sample depth in drill hole USW G-4 on the NTS
from which the matrix hydrologic properties were determined). All of the 
units in the list below are above the water table at Yucca Mountain.

1) Topopah Spring Welded Unit [Non-Lithophysal Zone] (1158 ft)
2) Basal Vitrophyre of the Topopah Spring Welded Unit (1299 ft)
3) Calico Hills Nonwelded Unit (1548 ft) 

The pore-size distribution data for samples of tuff matrix were obtained from
mercury intrusion tests. A distribution of pore radii was obtained, along 
with the percent volume of the sample associated with each pore radius. A
frequency plot of incremental volume versus pore diameter for a matrix sample
obtained from drill hole USW G-4, 1158 ft, is shown in Figure 13 as an
example. For most tuff samples for which mercury-intrusion data were
available, there was little or no pore volume for pore radii above 1-5
micrometers, with the average, volume-based pore diameter for tuffs determined 
to be generally less than 0.1 micrometer.
   Because no field information is available on the general distribution of
fracture apertures in the various stratigraphic units in Yucca Mountain, a
lognormal distribution was assumed. Snow (1970) notes that many arguments 
indicate the suitability of a lognormal distribution for describing
fracture-aperture frequencies in rock. He has studied joints in granite
outcrop and found that mean apertures were distributed approximately 
lognormally and suggests that apertures are similarly distributed at depth.
Sharp (1970) measured apertures in a single fracture in the laboratory. The
data showed a lognormal form, with a truncated tail due to the small area 
available for sampling. The two-parameter lognormal distribution (Aitchison,
1957) is defined by


where f(b) is the frequency at between aperture b and b + db, ~ is the mean
aperture, and ~ is the variance.


-34-

