43


between plant responses to changing soil conditions involve subtle
links that appear to tie important elements, such as phosphorus, to
micronutrients such as zinc. The disturbance of one link concurrently
alters other facets of the mineral cycle. In Ambrosia dumosa, an im-
portant shrub species within the Mohave Desert vegetation types, levels
of phosphorus are linked to levels of micronutirents such as zinc,
copper, iron, and manganese. When Ambrosia is grown on soils that con-
tribute to high concentrations of phosphorus the plant demonstrates a
a zinc deficiency; on soils effecting low levels of phosphorus the
318
species shows signs of zinc toxicity.

Soil fungi are considered to be important, even necessary, for the ab-
sorption of certain elements from the soil by plants. Symbiotic
mycorrhizae, root fungi, associated with Ambrosia and the grass Hilaria
rigida are necessary for phosphorus absorption in soils that are not
313
well supplied with available phosphorus. No doubt other examples of
beneficial fungi/vascular plant associations will be identified with
further study.

Other components within desert soils have a negative effect upon growth
of plants. A degree of allelopathy has been demonstrated in soils taken
from under existing or recently dead shrubs. Growth of new plants is
313
decreased in such soils. It has been suggested that substances from
roots of the previous plants, or the accumulated litter, may be toxic
to growth of new plants. Such a mechanism would act as an efficient
method of maintaining adequate spacing of shrubs, thereby minimizing
competition for water and nutrients.

Studies of mineral cycling within desert species must untangle a complex
web of soil/mineral/plant relationships, few of which are simple causal
links, many of which are presently unknown.
