     The relation between pH and total carbonate shown in Fig. 7, and the
relations between PMC and total carbonate and between ~13C and total carbonate
shown in Figs. 14(b) and 15(b), imply a relation between pH and the isotopic
variables. Figure 16(a) shows a plot of pH as a function of PMC and Fig. 16(b)
shows a plot of pH as a function of ~13C for water from Yucca Mountain and
vicinity. Both plots show some trends in the data for the tuffaceous waters,
but the UE-25p#1 samples do not follow these trends. This disparity between
the UE-25p#1 data and the tuffaceous water data was also evident in plots of
pH and carbon dioxide pressure as a function of total carbonate (Figs. 7 and
9), and calcite log10(Q/K) as a function of pH (Fig. 10). This behavior
contrasts with the apparent continuity between the UE-25p#1 data and
tuffaceous data in plots of calcium content and carbon dioxide pressure as a
function of pH (Figs. 6 and 8(b)) and of PMC and ~13C as a function of total
carbonate (Figs. 14(b) and 15(b)). Although some data point to a connection
between the tuffaceous and carbonate waters at Yucca Mountain, it is far from
clear that an actual physical or chemical connection exists (see Section
VII(B)).
     Stable hydrogen and oxygen isotopic data can also provide information
about the origins of water or some of the physical and chemical processes that
the water has undergone (Craig 1961; Faure 1977; Dansgaard 1964; Fritz and
Fontes 1980). Figure 17(a) shows a plot of the relative deuterium/hydrogen
content (~D) of water from Yucca Mountain, NTS, and vicinity as a function of
the relative 18O/16O content (~18O). The straight line represents a relation
obtained by Craig (1961) for meteoric water. Claassen (1985) shows a similar
plot (with only some of the data) and interprets the distribution of the data
along the meteoric water line as a temperature effect, with more negative ~D
and ~18O originating as precipitation at lower temperatures. Claassen (1985)
also shows relations between ~D and ~18O, and apparent age, with older waters
(lower PMC) showing more negative ~D and ~18O. He relates this to colder
temperatures 10,000 to 15,000 years ago (see also the following paragraph).
White and Chuma (1986) reported the data from Pahute Mesa and Oasis Valley in
Fig. 17(a). They interpreted the spread in Oasis Valley as caused by a mixing
of Pahute Mesa water (~D = ~-114~/~~ and ~18O = ~-14.5 to -14.7~/~~) with
water from the Bullfrog Hills in Oasis Valley (~D = ~-102~/~~ and ~18O =
~-13.4~/~~). They also cite the difference between Pahute Mesa water and
water from Fortymile Wash and the portion of the Amargosa Desert that drains


36
