						57


vicinity of Shay graben and the Lockhart basin in Section 3.2.5.1.  The final
EA also contains a new discussion on jointing (Section 3.2.5.7).  The data
presented are based largely on air photo analysis and, as the final EA states,
"air photo analysis does not provide adequate information to evaluate the age
of jointing, its sequence, or its vertical continuity" (page 3-79).  Given
these limitations, the NRC staff considers that reliance on air photo analysis
as partial support for the observation that "there is no evidence at the
surface or in well logs of two boreholes located at the crest of the (Gibson)
dome that joints have acted as conduits for groundwater to reach the salt,
causing dissolution" (page 3-73) does not reflect the uncertainty or the data
base.

The third concern expressed by NRC involved the apparent lack of recognition of
the Imperial fault zone and northwest-trending structures in the area of
Chesler Canyon, and the lack of an evaluation of these features with respect to
the tectonic regime.  As suggested in the NRC comment 1 on the draft EA, the
final EA addressed the following structural features:  the Meander anticline
(Section 3.2.5.5), the Needles fault zone (Section 3.2.5.1), the
north-northwest-trending salt anticlines and smaller parallel structures
including Gibson dome, Rustler dome, and the Indian Creek syncline (Section
3.2.5.5), the valley anticlines (Section 3.2.5.4), the northwest-trending
faults that run parallel to or within the core of salt anticlines (Section
3.2.5.1) and the northeast-trending faults (Section 3.2.5.1).  Regarding the
Imperial Fault zone and Chesler Canyon, however, the NRC staff was not able to
locate any discussion of these features in the final EA.  The Imperial Fault
zone may be of special significance because the swarm of microearthquakes
recently observed southwest of the site, and referred to above, is located at
the eastern extension of this zone, thus suggesting the possibility of recent
fault movement in this zone.


Comment 2

Dissolution - (Draft EA Major Comment 2)

Guideline on Dissolution 10CFR960.4-2-6 (a) and (b)

In the NRC staff major comments on the draft EA for Davis Canyon, NRC raised
the following concerns related to dissolution:

	1)  ~~~~~ed seismic reflection coverage coupled with discontinuous salt
	    reflector data in the site vicinity;
	2)  ~ossibi~~ty tha~ faul~in~ has disrupted the evaporite sequence
	    ~ringing the water-bearing Mississippian strata ~n contact with
	    ~~e sa~~ sequence;
	3)  aeromagnetic anomalies coincident with anoma~ous areas on ~~~~~~~otos
	    and Landsat imagery near fault R and near Lavender Canyon;
	4)  data not presented on ~~~~ts and ~ra~~ures ~~~~~ could provide
